= UCLPW

UCLPW stands for Ultimate Command-Line Project Wizard, and aims to be a simple
but powerful command-line utility to create initial versions of projects from
templates (called _skeletons_), so one starts coding new projects from a
half-working skeleton instead of from scratch.


= The skeletons

Each skeleton (project template) is a directory with arbitrary files and
directories inside. Skeletons are located in
<tt>/usr/share/uclpw/skeletons</tt>.

Each file can have special marks like "<tt>%(MY_VARIABLE)</tt>" to be
substituted by their values, and there are two special files: +vars+ and
<tt>extra.rb</tt>. The first one is a variable file, while the second one is a
Ruby file containing special, extra commands to execute when processing the
project template.

== The +vars+ file

The variables file stores the variables appearing as special marks (see above)
in any file in the project. The values for these variables are asked to the
user, and can have default values. Once UCLPW has all the needed values, the
template processing begins, and every *existing* variable value will be
substituted for the "<tt>%(VARIABLE_NAME)</tt>" style mark.

An example of a +vars+ file could be:

 DB_USER = 
 DB_PASSWORD =
 DB_CREATOR_USER = root
 DB_CREATOR_PASSWORD =
 # DB_NAME =
 # DB_TYPE =

Note that +DB_CREATOR_USER+ has a default value, while the rest not. Also note
that +DB_NAME+ and +DB_TYPE+ *aren't* asked to the user, they are there only
for documentation/reference purposes (will be left in the generated +vars+
file).


== The <tt>extra.rb</tt> file

This file defines new methods for the class +SkeletonProcessor+, as a way to
extend the functionality of the project template. Supported methods are:

[+pre_process+] Executed before finding and substituting "<tt>%(VARIABLE)</tt>"
                references
[+post_process+] Executed after finding and substituting "<tt>%(VARIABLE)</tt>"
                 references


= The command-line utility

The command-line utility is called +uclpw+, and receives one or two parameters:
the first is the project name (mandatory), and the second is the skeleton
identifier (optional). For example, you could call +uclpw+ like this (with and
without skeleton):

 uclpw my_new_project
 uclpw my_new_project special_skeleton
